Of course we have more than just click events though. Back on our buttons,
we can also register other events, for example mouse enter. Mouse enter is triggered whenever our mouse
or a cursor enters this button,
so if it is moved above this button. Now let me disable this disabling code so that we don't disable
the button anymore
and now let's have a look at that.
If we now reload and I move my cursor above this button, you see that event triggers, if I keep the button
on it, if I keep the cursor on the button, nothing happens, if I leave the button and re-enter it,
we again trigger this.
So of course you can also add a listener to listen for when the mouse leaves this button and so on.
Now please also note that if we now inspect this, we got a lot of properties which we knew before too,
client(x) and so on,
so these coordinates, what we also have now however is a related target and
that's quite interesting.
We have this property for mouse enter, mouse leave and so on,
this tells us which element the cursor was on before the mouse enter event trigger,
so from which element we're coming basically and that in this case was this div which surrounds the buttons.
So that's quite handy,
also good to know there if you are very fast with your cursor and you move your button very fast, your
cursor, you see in this case related target actually is the whole HTML document and not the div because
I moved my cursor so fast over the div into the button that the browser basically didn't get that the cursor
was on the div in between as well because the browser does not check the cursor position multiple times
per millisecond but quite often but still only periodically
and therefore if you move your cursor in a very fast way, this will not always be the direct neighbor
of the button in this case that triggered the event.
So that's just good to know,
nonetheless it's a useful property which can help you understand where the mouse cursor is coming from.
Now of course we have way more events
and as I mentioned MDN is the place to go to learn more about them and in general simply throw some
elements onto the screen, register some listeners and play around with events there,
that's the best way of diving into them on your own and learning more about them, it's really what I
would recommend for learning more about events, event objects and which events you have.
Of course you're also not limited to registering events only on buttons,
you can register events on basically any DOM elements, on any HTML element
you want to listen to, whatever you want to listen.
You can also register events on the overall window,
for example you can listen to scroll events there.
Now to demonstrate this, let's go to events.html and now below this div here,
I'll add a section, give it an ID of long one or whatever you want to call it and in events.css,
I'll just add a selector, long one, an ID selector and give this a height of 3000 pixels
so that this simply is a big invisible section.
If we now reload, we can scroll this page, right,
nothing happens there, nothing is down there but we can scroll because we have that large section down
there.
So now that the page is scrollable, let me show you how you can listen to scroll events. For that in
events.js,
here at the bottom maybe, we can go to our window and there we can also add an event listener
and here we also have the scroll event to which we can listen. Now there,
we can also of course output the event object which we're getting and therefore let's have a look at
what we get there,
what's inside this event object. If I reload now and I scroll, you see
well obviously a lot of events are fired,
basically for every scrolling action we do. Again, there of course is some delay or some interval at which
the browser checks for this scroll event but as you see, it fires a lot and therefore this by the
way is also an event you should be careful with and you shouldn't listen to it too often or do
very complex things when it occurs because indeed,
well as you see, it fires a lot and if you do some heavy calculation whenever this event occurs, you might
slow down your page.
Now what's inside of that event though?
Well we see, it's a rather short event object, has a couple of properties here,
it does have a target which is the entire document,
so maybe not too useful and therefore this is an event object where we might not get too much out of it.
Still we can do very nice things with it,
for example we could calculate how far the user is away from the bottom so that we can add more content
to the bottom if the user is close to the bottom, this provide such an infinite scroll feeling which you
might know from other websites.
Now after this lecture, you'll find a text lecture with a short example snippet for such a dummy infinite
scroll implementation you could use, it's just one idea of what you could do with the scroll event,
just want to put it out there that it exists and that you should also be careful with it, especially
regarding the heaviness of calculation you perform based on it.
Now that we have a rough understanding of what events are and that we can listen to a broad variety of
events on different elements, now you might be wondering how do you know which events exist on which
element, for example we have the scroll event here which we can listen to on a window,
can we also listen to that on a button though?
Well if I enter quotes here, single quotes, I can type scroll here,
so my IDE suggests that we can listen to that on a button as well
and indeed we can listen to scroll events on pretty much all DOM nodes because we can always put content
into other HTML elements and then this content might be scrollable and yes, even though it might
not make much sense,
we can also configure and style a button such that it holds scrollable content. So we can listen
to scroll events on basically all DOM elements
and that's pretty much true for pretty much all events, almost all DOM elements support all events
but as always MDN is the place to go if you want to be really sure. You can for example search
for MDN button to find the page for the button element and learn more about it and there, if you
scroll down, you find the DOM interface that belongs to it,
the HTML button element and there, you find it specific properties.
What you don't find on this page here is any section about its specific events,
so we seem to be on the wrong page,
so the next step is to go to the next element or the next constructor function, next prototype if you
want to call like this that is implemented by the button element which is the HTML element
and there we now also find these on event listeners here and this gives you an idea of which events
you can listen to on any element which is based on HTML element and that's a lot as you can tell
and this is how you can find out if a specific element supports a specific event.
Now typically, you will rarely look this up because you a) always work with the same kind of events anyways
and b) well whatever makes sense to you logically typically is also supported by the browser, for example
that you can click on pretty much any DOM element makes a lot of sense because the user can click anywhere
on the page, so you can also listen to that.
So typically, just thinking about this logically already allows you to find out which events are supported
where, if you can scroll something, you can listen to a scroll event, if you can click something, you can
listen to a click event.